# Hosting

"[gh-pages]" hosting example.


## Setup your gh-pages fork

1. Go to the github [Class Mentors project].
1. Create your own fork.
1. Go to Settings > Branches. Set the default branch to "gh-pages" and click "Update".
1. Go to Settings > Options > GitHub Pages. We will force the gh-pages to be generated by
   changing an arbitrary gh-pages setting. E.g. change the source to "master"
   and save; then revert the revert the source to "gh-pages" and save again.
1. You should see a link to your gh-pages "https://<user-or-organisation-name>.github.io/classmentors/".
   Visite it; you should see our landing app link to our staging firebase database.
1. Keep a note of the domain name. You will need it for you Firebase App configuration.


## Create your Firebase App

1. Go to the [Firebase console].
1. Create a new Project.
1. Go to Auth > Sign-in method. Click on "Google" on the list of provider
   and enable it
1. On the same page (Auth > Sign-in method), in the "OAuth redirect domains"
   section, click "Add domain" and add the gh-pages domain:
   "<user-or-organisation-name>.github.io".


## Add the Firebase database security rules

1. Go to your Github fork of Classmentors.
1. Visit our [security rule definitions] and copy the content.
1. Go to the [Firebase console].
1. Select the Firebase project you just create.
1. Go to Database > Rules. Select the current default, delete them and paste the
   the content of "rules.json". Click "Publish"


## Add static data

1. Visit our [initial data export] and save the it (in Chrome it would be
   "File > Save Page as..." or right click on the page and "save as").
1. Go to the [Firebase console].
1. Select the Firebase project you just create.
1. Go to Database > Data. Click the "more options" icon (three vertical dot),
   and select "Import JSON". Click on Upload file > Browse to select the
   "data.json" you downloaded.


## Edit the gh-pages "index.html"

1. Go to the [Firebase console].
1. Select the Firebase project you just create.
1. Click on "Add Firebase to your app".

    You should see something like that:

    ```
    <script src="https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/3.4.1/firebase.js"></script>
    <script>
      // Initialize Firebase
      var config = {
        apiKey: "xxxxxxxxxxx-some-random-key-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
        authDomain: "classmentors-test.firebaseapp.com",
        databaseURL: "https://classmentors-test.firebaseio.com",
        storageBucket: "classmentors-test.appspot.com",
        messagingSenderId: "698779847584"
      };
      firebase.initializeApp(config);
    </script>
    ```

    Keep note of this config object.
1. Go to your Github fork of Classmentors.
1. Click "index.html" in the list of file.
1. Click on the edit icon (a pen icon).
1. find the config object, replace the `apiKey`, `authDomain` and `databaseURL`
   with your own project configuation.


You gh-pages should now be serving your Firebase App data.


## TODO

- [ ] Add include export and security rules with the gh-pages branch.
- [ ] How to add an admin.
- [ ] How to add a premium user (maybe rename this role).
- [ ] How to change the landing page.
- [ ] Add screencasts.

[Class Mentors project]: https://github.com/singpath/classmentors
[security rule definitions]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/singpath/classmentors/master/database/security-rules.json
[initial data export]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/singpath/classmentors/master/database/data/export.json
[Firebase console]: https://console.firebase.google.com/
